feat: include otel-collector hivemq docs (#11867)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/collector/collector-configuration-examples/opentelemetry-collector-hivemq.mdx

---
title: Collector for HiveMQ
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Open source telemetry integrations
  - OpenTelemetry
  - HiveMQ
metaDescription: You can collect HiveMQ metrics using the OpenTelemetry collector.
---

> You can collect metrics about your HiveMQ MQTT messaging platform with the OpenTelemetry collector. The collector is a component of OpenTelemetry that collects, processes, and exports telemetry data to New Relic (or any observability back-end).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can collect metrics about your HiveMQ MQTT messaging platform with the OpenTelemetry collector. The collector is a component of OpenTelemetry that collects, processes, and exports telemetry data to New Relic (or any observability backend).
```

exporters:
  otlp:
    endpoint: https://otlp.nr-data.net:4317
    headers:
      api-key: NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY
processors:
  batch:
  memory_limiter:
    limit_mib: 400
    spike_limit_mib: 100
    check_interval: 5s
service:
  telemetry:
    logs:
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [prometheus]
      processors: [batch, memory_limiter]
      exporters: [otlp]
```

You may check [Opentelemetry Collector docs](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/configuration/) and [Prometheus configuration docs](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/) for additional configuration details.
    </Step>

   <Step>
  ## Run the OpenTelemetry collector [#run-collector]

Run the Opentelemetry collector (the way to run it may vary depending on the choosen installation method). Example:

```
/usr/bin/otelcol --config ./config.yaml
```
    </Step>

</Steps>

## Explore your data

You may use the [metrics explorer](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/browse-data/introduction-data-explorer) to check the metrics being ingested. All metrics reported by HiveMQ prometheus extension start with `com_hivemq_` prefix.

## Metric data details [#hivemq-metrics]

> The table below describes the kinds of metrics we collect. 

Reviewer: @sigilioso Is it correct to say we collect these metric types?

Author: Well, these metrics are an example because the metrics being collected may be different depending on the user's hive-mq setup (as explained In the _callout_ below). Could we that these metrics are an example?

> The table below describes the kinds of metrics we collect. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The table below lists examples the kinds of metrics we collect. 
```

Reviewer: @sigilioso How about this? ^

## Metric data details [#hivemq-metrics]

> The table below lists examples the kinds of metrics we collect. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The table below lists examples of the kinds of metrics we collect. 
```
